Main Menu:
The main menu not only functions as a "title screen", but also as a way to select and buy ships, skins, and modify the fleet (picture
included).


Range:
Making use of the distance between points on the map, the range mechanic determines how effective the fleet's weapons are. Primary and
secondary weapons and abilities will all have a maximum range assigned to them, beyond which they will not effect the enemy. Certain
abilities can be used stratetically to increase or decrease the distance between the fleet and enemy.


Grid-Based Movement:
In addition to moving around systems with the jump drive, the fleet can be relocated with the use of the grid-movement system. In each
system, a series of points will be available to move to. The enemies will spawn on one far away from the sector's forward station,
eventually moving closer (with the goal of capturing the station). This movement mechanic will determine if the fleet is close enough
to the enemy to effectively engage them (range mechanic) and whether it can recapture and repair.

Each ship in the game has its own movement speed (shown in the statistics tab). The fleet's movement speed, how fast they can relocate
from one grid position to another, is determined by finding the average of all three ships' movement speeds in the fleet. Based on this
value, the time it takes to travel from one grid position to another will be modified. This will be done by first finding the
fleet's average speed (80, for example), multiplying it by a constant (0.075, for example), and then dividing the distannce between
grid points (20km, for example), by the answer of the previous calculation (6). This example syntax is represented by the expression
b/(a(0.075)), where a is the fleet's average speed, b is the distance between the points, and 0.075 is the constant. Also, this number
is not truely a constant, as it can be modified by ships' engine boost or slow abilities (returning to normal after the effect wears
off).


Jump Drive:
The jump drive is an ability every ship has that allows the fleet to travel to different sectors (this cannot be done with the
grid-based movement system). Similar to other abilities, the a cool down timer is applied to the jump drive once it is used.
However, the jump drive ability has two charges (meaning the fleet can jump twice before it has to wait for the cooldown). If only one
charge is used, the other will regenerate over time. This mechanic forces the use of strategy, as the fleet cannot constantly move
around sectors (quantities of enemies have to be managed).


Abilities: Each ship will include its own abilities that result in different events. Some will damage the enemy, some will help the
fleet, and some will apply statuses. Statuses include plasma (damage over time), armour break (increasing damage done for a short time),
slow, energy drain, reveal (ships cannot cloak), shield (defence increased), etc. Depending on the ability, energy will be consumed.


Health:
All ships in the game, friendly and hostile, will have an amount of health. When a fleet ship's health depletes, it is destroyed and
will respawn in 60 seconds. For this time, its weapons and abilities will be unavailable. In the case of hostile ships, the depletion
of health means it is destroyed and will never return (all ships destroyed means the wave is complete).


Energy:
In addition to health, all ships in the game will have an amount of energy. Energy determines if the activation of an ability is
possible, different abilities having different enegry costs. While some ships will not depend on energy too much, mostly relying on
the cooldown timer, others will be heavily centered around it. Special abilities involving energy will include energy drain, energy
beam, transference shield, particle accelerator, etc. The energy system adds another layer to combat and forces the strategic use of
abilities.


Attacking:
In order to destroy enemies and progress through waves, an attack system will be available on all ships. Ways of dealing damage to
enemies include the primary weapon (used most often), secondary weapon (which is sometimes an ability), and other abilities a ship may
have. Most weapons will be on a cooldown timer and will damage the enemy, possibly applying a status. 


Upgrades:
Every three waves, the fleet will have the option to return to a base and choose an upgrade in Defence (increases fleet health), Utility
(increases energy, decreases recharge times), or Attack (increases damage). This will be done by modifying the base values of abilities.
Depending on the ships in the fleet, different upgrades will be more effective and will increase the fleet's survivability.


Score System:
How well each game is completed will be judged not only on waves survived, but on "civilians saved" (score). At the end of each wave,
a the number of civilians saved will be based on how fast the wave was complete, a time bonus (five minutes minus time completed in
times two, a time bonus will not be rewarded if time completed in is greater than five minutes), a survival score (starts at 150, 50 is
subtraced for every fleet ship that gets destroyed.


Capture System:
Before enemies can invade the main base and deal damage to it, they must capture the forward station in either the Alpha, Delta, or Beta
sectors. If the enemies in a given system aren't destroyed in a set amount of time,


Base/Turret Health and Mechanics:
When the enemy eventually captures a forward station and arrives at the main base, they will have to destroy three turrets (that will be
damaging the enemy) before damaging the main base. Depending on how many turrets are left, a different amount of damage will be applied
to a random enemy ship every few seconds. When the main base health reaches zero, the game will be over, and the player will be returned
to the menu and given rewards based in how well they did.


Status Report System:


